In Python, all data — including numbers and strings — are actually objects.

Objects of the same kind have the same type. You can use the **id** function and **type** function to get these pieces of information about an object.

(id and type functions are rarely used in programming, but they are good tools for learning more about objects)

```python
#i.e.
>>> n = 3 #n is an integer
>>> id(n)
505408904
>>> type(n)
<class 'int'>
#the object for int 3 is n

>>> f = 3.0 #f is a float
>>> id(f)
26647120
>>> type(f)
<class 'float'>
#the for float 3.0 is f

>>> s = "Welcome" #s is a string
>>> id(s)
36201472
>>> type(s)
<class 'str'>
>>>
#the object for str "Welcome" is s
```

the id for the object is automatically assigned a unique integer by Python when the program is executed. The id for the object won't be changed during the execution of the program. However, Python may assign a different id every time the program is executed. The type for the object is determined by Python according to the value of the object.

in Python, an object's type is defined by a class. for example, the class for string is **str**, for integer is **int**, and for float is **float**. In Python, classes and types are synonymous.

a variable in Python is actually a reference to an object(ref code abv)

the statement n = 3 in the first line assigns value 3 to n, which actually assigns 3 to an int object referenced by variable n.

note(objects vs. object reference variable): for n = 3, we say n is an integer variable that holds value 3. Strictly speaking, n is a variable that references an int object for value 3. For simplicity, it's fine to say the former.

you can perform operations on an object. the operations are defined using functions. The functions for the objects are called \*methods \*\*\*\*\*in Python. Methods can only be invoked from a specific object. I.e., the string type has the methods such as **lower()** and **upper()**, which return a new string in lowercase and uppercase.

```python
>>> s = "Welcome"
>>> s1 = s.lower() #invoke the lower method
>>> s1
'welcome'
>>> s2 = s.upper() #invoke the upper method
>>> s2
'WELCOME'
>>>
```

the second line invokes **s.lower()** on object **s** to return a new string in lowercase and assigns it to **s1**. the fifth line invokes **s.upper()** on object **s** to return a new string in uppercase and assigns it to **s2**.

As seen from the preceding example, the syntax to invoke a method for an object is **object.method()**.

another useful string method is **strip()**, which can be used to remove(strip) the whitespace characters from both ends of a string. the characters **' '**, **\\t**, **\\f**, **\\r**, and **\\n** are known as the _whitespace characters_.

```python
>>> s = "\\t Welcome \\n"
>>> s1 = s.strip() #invoke the strip method
>>> s1
'Welcome'
>>>
```

note: if Python is used on Eclipse, Eclipse automatically appends \\r to the string entered from the **input** function. therefore, you should use the strip() method to remove the \\r character as follows:

```python
s = input("Enter a string").strip()
```